---
date: 2009-12-21
---

# Unexpected Downtime
<div>Sometime this morning, one of the OCF's mail servers stopped responding to user logins.  We are working as fast as we can to resolve the issue, but do not have a time estimate.  The server that hosts webmail also recently stopped responding; we are working on restoring it, but are focusing on bringing mail services back online.</div><div><br /></div><div>The mail server in question — mail.OCF.Berkeley.EDU — provides IMAP, POP, and SMTP access to mail, but stores users' email on the central file server.  Old mail is still accessible via command-line mail clients like mutt and pine on our login servers (apocalypse and tsunami), and incoming mail will be queued on a different server and delivered when mail.OCF is restored.</div><div><br /></div><div>We will post updates when we have them.  If you need assistance, someone in <a href="http://www.ocf.berkeley.edu/services/irc.shtml">the OCF IRC channel</a> may be able to assist you, but please be patient if nobody responds right away.  :)  We apologize for the downtime and inconvenience, and wish you a wonderful winter break.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (23 December):</b> mail.OCF is partially online.  You can access your mail with an IMAP or POP client such as <a href="http://www.mozillamessaging.com/en-US/thunderbird/">Mozilla Thunderbird</a>, but we are still ironing out some issues with sending mail — please let us know if you have any problems.  Webmail is still down, but we are hoping to have that service restored within the next few days.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (27 December):</b> We've restored the server that hosts <a href="https://webmail.ocf.berkeley.edu/src/login.php">webmail</a> and <a href="http://docs.ocf.berkeley.edu/wiki/Main_Page">documentation</a>.  Thank you for your patience — have a happy New Year!</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (30 December): </b>Our SSL certificate issuing authority, ipsCA, kinda dropped the ball and forgot to renew their root certificates before they expired on December 29th.  As a result, unless you're using IE8, you will get a warning about an untrusted SSL certificate whenever you try to access OCF services like POP, IMAP, SMTP, Webmail, or account tools.  We are working on obtaining updated certificates from a slightly more on-the-ball certificate authority, but in the meantime, you may continue accessing your OCF services by overriding the certificate warnings.  However, in general this is a bad practice to get in the habit of, and we suggest that you wait until we have installed the updated certificates before attempting to connect.<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">UPDATE (5 January)</span>: We have installed the new SSL certs for mail.ocf and webmail.ocf.  Let us know if you have any issues connecting to these services, and happy new year!<br /></div>
