---
date: 2009-05-07
---

# apocalypse accepting user logins
apocalypse.OCF.Berkeley.EDU (192.58.221.245) is now accepting user logins. You should be able to connect to the server via SSH/SFTP to access your home directory and web space. If you're comfortable using a command-line mail client (e.g. mutt or pine), you'll also be able to read and send mail.<br /><br />There are a few lingering issues with the server. In particular:<br /><ul><li><strike>Public key authentication does not work. We're working on fixing this problem.</strike> Fixed.<br /></li><li>Some pre-installed software and user commands may be missing or broken. We had to re-compile all of our software for the rebuild, and it's an ongoing process. We prioritized the most commonly used programs, but leave a comment if you think we've forgotten an important program. <b>UPDATE:</b> We know the software waitlist is building up, so we're getting more staff involved in this process.<br /></li><li><strike>Password changing does not work.</strike> Use kpasswd to change your account password. Windows password changing is still broken.</li><li><strike>Cron jobs are not yet available.</strike> Cronjobs should now work <a href="http://docs.ocf.berkeley.edu/wiki/Cron">as documented on our wiki</a>.<br /></li></ul>The SSH host keys are:<br /><ul><li><span style="font-weight: bold;">DSA:</span><br /><span style="font-family:courier new;">04:68:af:14:ab:a1:4e:79:c3:42:6f:51:62:10:a2:5a<br />xivit-hunuc-kogur-hizez-pazyr-bynat-pytop-zitos-dufuf-danec-sixax</span></li><li><span style="font-weight: bold;">RSA:</span><br /><span style="font-family:courier new;">72:16:9c:7e:7b:cc:a0:47:56:6d:e3:59:aa:04:bc:7c<br />xipav-pizem-lysyd-kicyt-sococ-macuz-hyluc-vizoc-cotem-latig-muxyx</span></li></ul>Thanks for your continued patience!
