---
date: 2009-04-29
---

# None
We apologize for the lack of notification and the lack of status updates, and are grateful for your patience.  As you may have guessed, this is not a planned outage.<br /><br />On April 19th, we discovered that one of our servers had been broken into.  We initially tried to contain the problem, but further investigation revealed that the scope of the break-in was worse than we had originally thought.  At our Board of Directors meeting on Thursday, April 23, it was decided that many, if not all, of the OCF servers would need to be rebuilt, to reduce the possibility that the hacker would be able to break back into our systems.  Because of the nature of the incident, in the interests of security and damage control, the decision was made to begin reconstruction efforts immediately, rather than waiting the customary week to give notification.<br /><br />Starting that night, various servers have been pulled from the network for forensic analysis and re-installation.  However, we have been delayed in restarting some of our services due to an unforeseen difficulty in rebuilding one of our core servers.  Until that issue is cleared up, we will be unable to resume anything approaching normal service.<br /><br />For those of you worried about mail, the mail servers are continuing to accept incoming mail, and it will be available for pick-up once normal services resume.<br /><br />I'm very sorry that I cannot give you a more solid timeframe than "soon."  Please, rest assured that we are doing our very best to bring the OCF back online, and all of our senior technical staff are hard at work fixing this roadblock to normalcy.  We ask your patience and understanding, noting that all our staff are volunteers and students who, like you, have class and work obligations, especially with finals looming ever closer.<br /><br />As always, you are welcome to join us on the OCF IRC channel, irc.ocf.berkeley.edu, with questions, concerns, or anything else you think we should know.
