---
date: 2010-11-17
---

# Scheduled downtime this weekend
<div>Hey OCFers,</div><div><br /></div><div>In order to give OCF mail a much-needed reliability boost, we plan to incrementally replace our current mail infrastructure with a centralized, redundant new system.  The current system is scattered and full of single points of failure — as an example, our SpamAssassin server didn't survive <a href="http://ocfblog.blogspot.com/2010/11/asuc-building-power-outage.html">last week's power outage</a>, and our mail servers were forced to reject all incoming mail until we were able to build a replacement spam filter on a different machine.  Our hope is that this new system will be significantly less volatile and more maintainable.</div><div><br /></div><div>To that end, we'll be taking OCF mail down this Saturday.  We'll be migrating mail storage, outgoing SMTP, IMAP/POP, and webmail to the new mail server.  Incoming mail will not be accepted while we're working on the servers, but we'll try to keep read-only access to your old mail online for most of the day.  As always, you can follow our progress here and on IRC.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (20 November, 12:15PM):</b>  It begins!  We've taken incoming mail offline and made <span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-family:'courier new';">/var/mail</span> read-only for the mailspool migration.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (20 Nov, 2:30PM):</b>  We've finished copying data from the old mailstore to the new one and are in the process of switching NFS servers.  IMAP/POP access to mail is now down.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (20 Nov, 5:30PM):</b>  We're having a bit of trouble with the new NFS server; IMAP/POP is still down, and our login servers hung and had to be rebooted a short while ago.  tsunami and conquest should be working now, though.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (20 Nov, 6:45PM):</b>  The NFS server is now up and running, now that we've squashed a pesky NFSv4-related bug (thanks to sluo and dwc for their help!).  <span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-family:'courier new';">/var/mail</span> is no longer read-only.  Once we finish migrating disk quota information, we'll bring the mail servers back online.  Thanks for your patience.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>UPDATE (21 Nov, 12:15AM):</b> <span class="Apple-style-span"  style="font-family:'courier new';">/var/mail</span> has been fully migrated to the new NFS server, and we've re-enabled the old mail servers.  Incoming mail and POP/IMAP still live on the old infrastructure, but now that the NFS server migration is complete we should be able to set up the new infrastructure with minimal downtime.</div><div><br /></div><div><i>To be clear, we have not yet migrated SMTP, IMAP/POP, or webmail to the new mail server, but we plan to do so in the near future.  Watch this space for updates.</i></div>
