---
date: 2014-12-10
---

# Scheduled downtime: Dec 18, Dec 27-28, Jan 3-4
We found out yesterday that, due to construction, Hearst Gym will have no power on Dec 27-28 and Jan 3-4. Unfortunately, all OCF services will be affected by the power outage.<br />
<br />
We're looking into ways to reduce the impact, but currently you should expect the following impacts:<br />
<br />
<ul>
<li><b>Web hosting:</b> All web hosting, including student group hosting, will be unavailable. We're working on providing a descriptive error page, rather than simply having requests time out.</li>
<li><b>Email hosting: </b>Email sent to students or to groups with virtually-hosted mail will be delayed until the outage ends. Senders might receive a notice that delivery has been delayed, but you will still receive the messages shortly after the power returns.</li>
</ul>
<div>
These services will be <b>completely unavailable</b>:</div>
<div>
<ul>
<li>Database (MySQL) access</li>
<li>Shell (SSH/SFTP to tsunami)</li>
<li>F/OSS Mirrors (mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu)</li>
</ul>
<div>
We're working now to try to minimize the impact of the outage, and will post updates here. Please <a href="https://ocf.io/contact">email us</a> if you have any questions.<br />
<br />
<b>Update 12/10:</b> We are scheduling downtime during the evening of Thursday, December 18th to test our ability to start all servers and services remotely. Total downtime should be less than 30 minutes.<br />
<br />
<b>Update 12/18:</b> Maintenance for tonight is completed. Total downtime was about 45 minutes (instead of the expected 30) due to a problem with a switch after we restored power. The good news is that we caught it now rather than in a week when nobody will be around to fix it. Everything else worked as expected.</div>
</div>

