---
date: 2016-09-16
---

# Ongoing lab closures due to understaffing
The OCF has already had to announce <a href="http://status.ocf.berkeley.edu/2016/08/changes-to-our-lab-hours.html">one reduction in our hours of operation this semester</a>, and we're sorry to say that further closures on top of that will be the norm for the next several weeks. Anyone who has visited the lab or our website in the last two weeks has noticed that we are missing a couple hours on Thursday and Friday from what was previously announced, and that, for the first time in recent memory, we are closed all day every Saturday.<br />
<br />
While we would like to say there was something we can do about this, it is unfortunately out of our control: the Publications and Media Center is responsible for providing the paid employees who man the front desk during all hours the lab is open. Unfortunately, the PMC has been operating with a reduced staff this semester and is still seeking to hire replacements. We must conclude that these additional closures will continue for a few more weeks at least.<br />
<br />
The OCF is not happy about the state of things, but the hiring process takes time, and there is not any way for us to speed things up. In the meantime, <a href="https://ocf.io/lab">please keep an eye on our hours page</a>; as much as possible, if we can predict when we will be closed, we will update the hours on our website. Please also check our homepage, as we will make an announcement there as soon as possible in the event of an unexpected closure during the day.
